to-do:

set up opening cutscene

	make sure the player is in the correct position and facing when coming out of a cutscene.

place obstacles, NPCs, exits, and any dialogue in clubs

Collect animation frames from sprite rips

Add down-facing triangle to dialogue box to indicate "more".



A simple method to accept player input that determines whether the player duels the NPC or not, and whether or not the player won the duel.


Maybe create a insert_next function for the event manager, so that I can add events to the queue as the next event, rather than the last event.


refactoring: add an on_load function(?) in the map that automatically adds events to the queue whenever the map loads. This way I won't have to rely on "a hidden trigger that the invisible player steps on".


structural code to-do:

Animation effects: opacity, cycling between frames

for bar in front of airport and door in mirror room: create removed_obstacles list(?) in player_data, that keeps track of what obstacles are removed from which maps. Do the same for foreground sprites (e.g. bar in front of airport, door in mirror room).

Actually, I guess I could just use the animation manager for static foreground images.


Maybe a function that converts something like ["left", "up", "left"] into step events for a character.


Technically doesn't have to be done before the early release, but will need to be done at some point:

 finish npc sprites, profile images, and club images
 create combined image for neo continent npc portrait images


 animations on the maps: flickering lights in fire and pokemon-ex, water on shores of tcg island, pokemon-ex cards moving to the player, airplane sprite flying off-screen/on-screen when transitioning between the two overworld maps, exclamation marks from grand master door and Normal club NPCs, Fake Mason pixelating, increasing darkness for the airplane cutscene (though the last one might be separate)


 adding symbol to the name of club members you defeat (or possibly just add (beaten))

Not crucial but probably a good idea:

 refactor the two base classes for exits

 make event_list a class. The init should be called at the beginning of each loop, and it should determine each keypress result and save it to self. Then, when checking for keypresses, the main code just needs to check if, for example, event_list.down_key is True. This is so that the code doesn't have to check every possible event, multiple times per loop.

 make it safe to have a map that doesn't have a npcs list (low priority; I can just add npcs=[] to each map)

 Ooh, I could easily make foreground images by just adding a draw command to foreground images and not setting any collision/interaction detection on them.





Get club/overworld portions of the game running on web browser. Moving between clubs (done!), interacting with NPCs, maybe even cutscenes (though that's not as critical).

Overworld animations, NPC animations (same thing?)

Foreground objects (windsocks, walls) (super-easy)

Club maps

Neo Continent NPC portraits/sprites

Sounds/music



Duel menuing:
Simplest possible menuing: show only the current option on-screen, and let left-right alter the options. This would work for any situation where the player needs to pick from a list, though it would be very clunky.

duel main text options:

store the text options as a 2d list
store cursor location
display the text from the list
display the cursor location
take keypresses
use UDLR keypresses to move the cursor's location in the stored cursor location, which should automatically update the cursor display location.
use key designated "A" to trigger the function connected to the stored cursor location.



Current focuses:

Displaying text on duel screen
Displaying cursor
Connecting cursor to menu logic


Bare minumum for duel: duel phase=duel screen, go to "resign" and select it, switch phase to "overworld"


Duel starts, sets everything up. Coin is flipped, result discarded; player goes first. Each time through the loop, the display_duel_menu function is called. It checks the duel screen (main), so displays everything relevant. Then it checks the nested submenu location and sees that the duel is in the main menu, so it displays the appropriate menu on-screen, calling the text_layout function to layout and display the text. Then the location of the cursor is checked and placed in the appropriate location. The key-presses are checked and any appropriate logic in ui.menu is triggered.





To-do: duel screen first screen layout, menu, handle resign.

To check the full loop: talk to an NPC on the overworld to trigger a duel, then select "resign" to drop you back to the overworld. 
requirements: NPC interaction, yes/no choice, a screen to display the cards in your hand, some sort of display for the coin toss (monkeypatched so the player goes first), code for viewing the main cards, code for the duel menu, and a coded resign option.





Bare minimum:
Put alternating steps in the core duel gameplay loop.
Set up very basic NPC AI: either "random choice" or "do everything I can".

Additions:
Duel screen: layout, display options, shift to check, move among check, switch to overworld
Crop images and set up image folders for duel screen

Others:
plot triggers backend
cutscenes
walking sprite animations
interacting with NPCs
map animations
pokemon attacks and powers - event system and decorators
NPC AI
GUI and code for menu items such as making a deck or setting player options





phase shifts into duelling - done
For both players:
 Load deck from saved file - done
 Draw cards into hand - done
 Reshuffle if no basic pokemon in the player's hand, let player know - done
 place prize cards (3 in this case) - done
 Player chooses cards to play into active slot
 player chooses cards, if any, to play into benched slot
coin flip to see who goes first
deck consists of 10 of a random pokemon and 20 of the relevant energy cards.
player options: check hand, check game board, retreat, attack, pokemon power, end turn. 
enemy AI just attaches an energy to the active pokemon if it has one and attacks with the highest attack it can.
play continues until a player decks out, has no pokemon out, or all prizes are drawn.
phase shifts out of duelling


previous focus: set up proper navigation between menus

The code should be given a list containing the string content of each item and the function that selecting it calls. It should also take layout information, such as the dimensions of the overall container, how many sections it's split into horizontally and vertically, and maybe the size of the font.





Add requirements and limitations for each player action. Evolution requires the proper card, only one energy per turn, retreat discards the appropriate energy, attacks require the appropriate energy, etc.




Initial menu:

Hand, Game Board, Retreat, Attack, Pokemon Power, End Turn, Resign - done

Hand -> list the cards in the hand, select one -> [inspect, play] - done
Hand, inspect -> displays card information, returns to previous menu once the player is done -done
Hand, play -> resolves the card depending on the type.
Hand, play (energy) -> list the pokemon, select one -> attach energy, back to main menu - done
Hand, play (pokemon) -> places the pokemon on the bench, if space is available. -done
Hand, play (trainer) -> process the effect, listing any choices necessary due to the card. For example, selecting cards to discard, or a pokemon to play the card onto -> back to main menu <----still needs doing, skip for now

Game board -> list the cards visible and the card quantities of the hidden cards -> choose one of the cards

Retreat -> select energy from the attached pokemon, if there is an energy cost -> select the pokemon to switch to -> switch pokemon, discard energy -> back to menu

Attack -> list the available attacks, select one -> make any other choices needed by the attack, such as choosing a benched pokemon or choosing which energies to discard -> resolve damage -> back to menu

Pokemon Power -> list the pokemon that have pokemon power, select one -> make any choices needed by the pokemon power, such as moving damage around or moving energy around -> resolve the effects -> back to menu

End Turn -> causes the turn to change and the other player to go.

Resign -> triggers "duel end(player lost)" function.

At almost any time, the player can choose to cancel the submenu without doing anything.





get/generate choices
list choices, get user input
process any game results
store any card information
update menu stack




